  <tr>
    <td>3:18</td>
    <td>
      Evil machinations entered into their hearts, and the poison of their breath might be likened unto the deadly Bohon Upas, which rears its lofty branches in the barren valley of Java.
    </td>
    <td>
      And it came to pass that Amalickiah caused that one of his servants should administer poison by degrees to Lehonti, that he died.
    </td>
    <td>Alma 47:18</td>
  </tr>

Amalackiah Parallels:

15 Now it happened about this time that 
there were numbers of the inhabitants of the 
country of Columbia whose hearts yearned 
after the king of Britain. 

16 These men were called Tories, which 
signifieth, in the vernacular tongue, the blind 
followers of royalty. 

17 And with their false flattering words 
they led astray some of the children of Co* 
lumbian Liberty ; for their tongues were 
smoother than oil. 

18 Evil machinations entered into their 
hearts, and the poison of their breath might 
be likened unto the deadly Bohon Upas, 
which rears its lofty branches in the barren 
valley of Java.* 

19 And they strove to dishearten the true 
friends of the great Sanhedrim ; but they pre- 
vailed not. 

20 Moreover, Satan entered into the heart 
of one of the governors of the east, and he 
was led astray by the wickedness thereof, 
even Caleb, the shittamite.f 

21 Now Caleb, which in the cherokee 
tongue, signifieth an ass, liked not the decree 
of the great Sanhedrim, inasmuch as he fa- 
vored the king of Britain ; and, though willing 
to become a beast of burden, yet would not 
move on account of his very great stupidity. 

22 And he said unto the captains of the 
hosts of the state over which he presided, Lo! 
it seemeth not meet unto me that ye go forth 
to battle against the king. 

23 For, lo ! are not the fighting men of 
Britain in multitude as the sand on the sea 
shore ? and shall we prevail against them ? 

24 Are not the mighty ships of the king 
spread over the whole face of the waters? is 
not Britain the " bulwark of our religion?*' 

25 Therefore, I command that ye go not 
out to battle, but every man remain in his 
own house. 

26 And all the governors of the east lis- 
tened unto the voice of Caleb, the shittamite. 

27 Moreover, the angel of the Lord whis- 
pered in the ear of Caleb, and spake unto 
him, saying, 

28 If, peradventure, thou dost refuse to 
obey the laws of the land, the thing will not 
be pleasant in the sight of the Lord ; 

29 Inasmuch as it may cause the people to 
rise up one against another, and spill the 
blood of their own children. 

30 And the time of warfare will be length- 
ened out, and the blood of thousands will be 
upon thine head. 

31 And Satan spake, and said unto Caleb, 
Fear not ; for if thou wilt forsake thy coun- 
try, and throw off the paltry subterfuge of 
Columbian Liberty, and defy the councils 
of the great Sanhedrim, 

32 Then shall thy name be proclaimed 
with the sound of the trumpet throughout all 
the earth ; and thou shalt be a prince and a 
ruler over this people. 

33 Now the smooth words of Satan tickled 
Caleb mightily, and he hearkened unto the 
counsel of the wicked one : 

34 For the good counsel given unto him 
was as water thrown upon a rock. 

3.5 But when the chief governor and the 
great Sanhedrim of the people saw the wick- 
edness of Caleb, their hearts were moved 
with pity toward him and his followers : yea, 
even those who had made a convention at the 
little town of Hartford. 

36 Neither doth the scribe desire to dwell 
upon the wickedness which came into the vil- 
lage of Hartford, the signification of the 
name whereof, in the vernacular tongue, ap- 
peareth not. 

37 For the meddling therewith is as the 
green pool of unclean waters, when a man 
casteth a stone therein. 





=====

King Mosiah and/or Moroni?

the aged Willet, with the star-span- 
gled banner of Columbia waving over his 
silvery head, addressed the surrounding mul- 
titude. 

10 And the people shouted with a loud 
voice, for the words of his mouth were plea- 
sant to the sons of Liberty, and were in this 
wise : 

11 Lo ! three score and fourteen years 
have brought with them their bodily infirmi- 
ties ; but were my strength as unimpaired 
as my love for my country, and that soul 
which still animates me, ye would not have 
found me in the rostrum, but in the midst of 
the battle ! fighting against the enemies of 
freedom. 

12 Thus did he encourage the people to 
prepare themselves for the protection of the 
city. 

13 And certain wise men were appointed, 
by* the people ; to bring these things into 
operation. 
14 So the people began to fortify them- 
selves and entrench the high places round a- 
bout the city.


=====

Nephi building a ship?

the people said, Lo ! the man is be- 
side himself and they laughed at him ; ne- 
vertheless, he exceeded their expectations. 

6 For it came to pass, that (assisted by Li- 
vingston, a man of wealth, and a lover of arts 
and learning) he was enabled to construct 
certain curious vessels, called in the vernacu- 
iar tongue, steam-boats. 

7 Now these steam-boats were cunningly 
contrived, and had abundance of curious 
workmanship